
List of Figures and Tables 
Figure 1. Map of the Klamath River Renewal Project (Lower Klamath Project) and molecular library monitoring sites, including geographic location of the Klamath River Basin, the project area including dams removed in 2024, and the Scott River reference sites (upper left), the distribution of the reference sites (upper right), and the mainstem, tributary, and control sites in relation to the reservoir footprints (lower).  
Figure 2. Images of before and after dam removal on the Klamath River. (A1) Upstream view of the Iron Gate Reservoir below Fall Creek, prior to the start of reservoir drawdown and dam removal, beginning of January 2024. Photo Olivia Vosburg, Resource Environmental Solutions (RES). (A2) Same location as A1, now an upstream view of the Klamath River below Fall Creek, taken within the former Iron Gate Reservoir footprint, May 2024. Photo Dan Chase, RES. (B1) Drone image of the Copco 1 Dam, completed in 1918, along the Klamath River during pre-dam removal activities in September 2023. Photo John Lang, RES. (B2) Drone image of the Klamath River at the former Copco 1 Dam site following the completion of dam removal activities in October 2024. Photo John Lang, RES. 
 Figure 3. Diagram showing (A) water sample collection and filtration protocol with potential analyses and inference possible over the life of the molecular library eNA archive (including a proportion of samples preserved for eDNA analysis pathways symbolized by the double helix icon and a proportion of samples preserved for eRNA analysis pathways symbolized by the single stranded icon), (B) the proposed sampling timeframe and data purpose over timescales relevant to management and research and as a time capsule, to capture ecosystem responses to dam removal, and (C) status of requisite steps for the establishment of molecular library as an environmental specimen bank, including 1those completed at time of publication and 2 those identified as potential future activities. 
Figure 4. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) plot visualizing site-level species composition based on a Bray-Curtis dissimilarity matrix from rarefied sequence reads. Significant species vectors (p ≤ 0.001) are overlaid to highlight species-ordination relationships (common names), with sites grouped by habitat type (stream vs. reservoir) and 95% confidence ellipses displayed. Corresponding scientific names available in Supplementary Information: Supplemental Table 1 – Metabarcoding Species Data.
Figure 5. Four-panel figure illustrating model results for native fish diversity and richness across habitats. (A) Forest plot showing the effects of habitat type (reservoir vs. stream), stream size (mainstem vs. tributary), control vs. impact, reference vs. impact, scaled dissolved oxygen (mg/L), and scaled specific conductance (µS/cm) on the odds of non-extreme low native fish diversity (error bars represent 95% credible intervals). (B) Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve displaying the area under the curve (AUC) fit (0.91) for the diversity model, indicating a high true positive rate. (C) Forest plot of covariate effects on native species richness rate ratios with 95% credible intervals. (D) Scatter plot of fitted vs. observed values, showing model accuracy in predicting native species richness across sites (R2=0.64). 
Figure 6. Heat map of the quantity of flow-corrected DNA sequences detected per taxon at each sampling location (blue), native species Shannon-Weiner diversity index (green), and native species richness (grey). Darker colors indicate larger values. The plot panels are split vertically with “Reservoir” locations on the left and “Stream” locations on the right, and “Exotic” taxa detected in the top half and “Native” taxa on the bottom half. Sampling locations are plotted downstream to upstream within their respective panels. Scientific names provided in Supplemental Table 1. 
